\section{Results}

And Minerva answered, "I will tell you truly and particularly all about it. I
am Mentes, son of Anchialus, and I am King of the Taphians. I have come here
with my ship and crew, on a voyage to men of a foreign tongue being bound for
Temesa with a cargo of iron, and I shall bring back copper. As for my ship, it
lies over yonder off the open country away from the town, in the harbour
Rheithron under the wooded mountain Neritum. Our fathers were friends before
us, as old Laertes will tell you, if you will go and ask him. They say,
however, that he never comes to town now, and lives by himself in the country,
faring hardly, with an old woman to look after him and get his dinner for him,
when he comes in tired from pottering about his vineyard. They told me your
father was at home again, and that was why I came, but it seems the gods are
still keeping him back, for he is not dead yet not on the mainland. It is more
likely he is on some sea-girt island in mid ocean, or a prisoner among savages
who are detaining him against his will. I am no prophet, and know very little
about omens, but I speak as it is borne in upon me from heaven, and assure you
that he will not be away much longer; for he is a man of such resource that
even though he were in chains of iron he would find some means of getting home
again. But tell me, and tell me true, can Ulysses really have such a fine
looking fellow for a son? You are indeed wonderfully like him about the head
and eyes, for we were close friends before he set sail for Troy where the
flower of all the Argives went also. Since that time we have never either of
us seen the other."

"My mother," answered Telemachus, "tells me I am son to Ulysses, but it is a
wise child that knows his own father. Would that I were son to one who had
grown old upon his own estates, for, since you ask me, there is no more
ill-starred man under heaven than he who they tell me is my father."
